\begin{abstract} 

This document describes a sizable grammar of English written in the
TAG formalism and implemented for use with the XTAG system. This
report and the grammar described herein supersedes the TAG grammar
described in \cite{tech-rept95}. The English grammar described in this
report is based on the TAG formalism developed in \cite{joshi75},
which has been extended to include lexicalization (\cite{schabes88}),
and unification-based feature structures (\cite{vijay91}).  The
grammar discussed in this report extends the grammar presented in
\cite{abeille90:TECH} in at least two ways.  First, this grammar has
more detailed linguistic analyses, and second, the grammar presented
in this paper is fully implemented.  The range of syntactic phenomena
that can be handled is large and includes auxiliaries (including
inversion), copula, raising and small clause constructions,
topicalization, relative clauses, infinitives, gerunds, passives,
adjuncts, it-clefts, wh-clefts, PRO constructions, noun-noun
modifications, extraposition, determiner sequences, genitives,
negation, noun-verb contractions, sentential adjuncts and imperatives.
This technical report corresponds to the XTAG Release 8/31/98. The
XTAG grammar is continuously updated with the addition of new analyses
and modification of old ones, and an online version of this report can
be found at the XTAG web page: {\tt
http://www.cis.upenn.edu/\~{}xtag/}.

\end{abstract}

